The image of incomprehension (2018)

The inspiration for this piece came from Brazilian artist Cildo Meireles's work Babel - a massive tower of radios piled on top of each other all of which blurt out their own sounds resulting in a terrible cacophony of incomprehension. My project is an attempt to update the tower of Babel to a world which is now regulated through algorithms. At the beginning of the piece, the viewer can begin to read an extract from the Bible that recounts the story of how God created multiple languages for humans in order to punish them for their ambition when creating a tower to heaven. The text begins slowly, but it is difficult to read because it keeps going out of view - the only part of the text that is legible is: "Now the whole world had one language and a common speech", i.e. code. By the time the viewer can begin to read the other parts of the text, the words have accelerated in their speed - making it impossible to ever understand the story that was supposed to be told. A chaotic loop of text become incomprehensible to the viewer mimicking the disorienting aspects of the acceleration of computational time and space. However, eventually some of the phrases begin to regain clarity as they go so fast that they appear to be in the same place. As the tectonic plates of these phrases rearrange, the viewer can forgot the first phrase given to them, they can forget that this was all made in one language, and peace arrives. There is an order to the text, it is completely legible and the white line seems to clean the chaos that has just disappeared. The text reveals itself as a harmonious image. But it also has a certain eeriness to it that arises from the viewer's knowledge that so many things are happening beyond their perception.   




